README.md, before:

- Description:
E Waste Snake is an arcade style game that explores the theme of nature tech and consumerism by subverting the established mechanics of the classic Snake genre. The primary inspiration for this mechanic was the iconic Nokia Snake game(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1OtWJV4DcdM&t=253s)  , which I wanted to deliver a modern environmental message. While traditional games reward the player by making the snake grow longer, this project functions as a metaphor for rapid consumption,  the player controls a tech hungry consumer who collects new gadgets. Instead of growing, the player remains the same size but leaves behind a permanent trail of E-waste which is a scraps of metal every time a new phone is consumed.
- Functionality:
The core functionality relies on grid based movement where the map progressively fills with static obstacles, creating a twist where the player eventually becomes trapped by their own accumulated junk. The mechanics ensure that when a phone is eaten, it relocates to a random position while simultaneously converting the player previous coordinate into a permanent collision block. Additionally, the game utilizes the drawing function of javascript original assets using code based drawing functions, rather than importing external files and picture. 
- Issues Encountered:
The development process presented several technical challenges. One significant problem was distinguishing between the active food and the static waste; I had to ensure that when a phone was eaten, it relocated correctly while simultaneously converting the player's previous coordinate into a permanent collision block, however i was able to solve the problem by seeking external help from links I am going to post bellow. Additionally, due to problem with my computer  preventing the loading of external image and audio files, I had to adapt by creating original assets by writing code to draw the shapes manually using drawing functions. I also faced persistent bugs with state management, specifically where the game would crash or the player would move randomly after a reset. Consequently, because much of my time was focused on resolving these core collision and logic issues, I was unable to implement a visible score counter or a definitive winning screen.

external source that I use: 
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMoVcohRgZA
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RXWO3mFuW-I
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-e5h4IGKZRY

Commit message:

readme
Added links to GitHub repository and hosted version.

README.md, after:

links that relate to my github repository and hosted version: 
repository: https://github.com/duylerhul/MA1805finalproject
hosted: http://127.0.0.1:5500/e%20snake%20game1/snake%20game.html


- Description:
E Waste Snake is an arcade style game that explores the theme of nature tech and consumerism by subverting the established mechanics of the classic Snake genre. The primary inspiration for this mechanic was the iconic Nokia Snake game(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1OtWJV4DcdM&t=253s)  , which I wanted to deliver a modern environmental message. While traditional games reward the player by making the snake grow longer, this project functions as a metaphor for rapid consumption,  the player controls a tech hungry consumer who collects new gadgets. Instead of growing, the player remains the same size but leaves behind a permanent trail of E-waste which is a scraps of metal every time a new phone is consumed.
- Functionality:
The core functionality relies on grid based movement where the map progressively fills with static obstacles, creating a twist where the player eventually becomes trapped by their own accumulated junk. The mechanics ensure that when a phone is eaten, it relocates to a random position while simultaneously converting the player previous coordinate into a permanent collision block. Additionally, the game utilizes the drawing function of javascript original assets using code based drawing functions, rather than importing external files and picture. 
- Issues Encountered:
The development process presented several technical challenges. One significant problem was distinguishing between the active food and the static waste; I had to ensure that when a phone was eaten, it relocated correctly while simultaneously converting the player's previous coordinate into a permanent collision block, however i was able to solve the problem by seeking external help from links I am going to post bellow. Additionally, due to problem with my computer  preventing the loading of external image and audio files, I had to adapt by creating original assets by writing code to draw the shapes manually using drawing functions. I also faced persistent bugs with state management, specifically where the game would crash or the player would move randomly after a reset. Consequently, because much of my time was focused on resolving these core collision and logic issues, I was unable to implement a visible score counter or a definitive winning screen.

external source that I use: 
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMoVcohRgZA
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RXWO3mFuW-I
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-e5h4IGKZRY
